charts/k8s-monitoring/README.md, before:

# k8s-monitoring

![Version: 0.0.8](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.0.8-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.1.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.1.6-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for gathering, scraping, and forwarding Kubernetes infrastructure metrics and logs to a Grafana Stack.

## Usage

### Setup Grafana chart repository

```
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

### Install chart

To install the chart with the release name my-release:

```bash
cat >> values.yaml << EOF
cluster:
  name: my-cluster

externalServices:
  prometheus:
    host: https://prometheus.example.com
    username: "12345"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"
  loki:
    host: https://loki.example.com
    username: "67890"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"
EOF
helm install my-release grafana/k8s-monitoring --values values.yaml
```

This chart simplifies the deployment of a Kubernetes monitoring infrastructure, including the following:

* [kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), which gathers metrics about Kubernetes objects
* [Node exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter), which gathers metrics about Kubernetes nodes
* [OpenCost](https://www.opencost.io/), which interprets the above to create cost metrics for the cluster, and
* [Grafana Agent](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/), which scrapes the above services to forward metrics to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and logs to [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/)

The Prometheus and Loki services may be hosted on the same cluster, or remotely (e.g. on Grafana Cloud).

## Maintainers

| Name | Email | Url |
| ---- | ------ | --- |
| petewall | <pete.wall@grafana.com> |  |

## Requirements

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts | grafana-agent | ~0.16.0 |
| https://opencost.github.io/opencost-helm-chart | opencost | ~1.16.1 |
| https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts | kube-state-metrics | ~5.8.1 |
| https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts | prometheus-node-exporter | 4.18.1 |
| https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts | prometheus-operator-crds | ~5.0.0 |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| cluster.name | string | `""` | (required) The name of this cluster, which will be set in all labels |
| externalServices.loki.host | string | `""` | (required) Loki host where logs and events will be sent |
| externalServices.loki.password | string | `""` | (required) Loki basic auth password |
| externalServices.loki.username | string | `""` | (required) Loki basic auth username |
| externalServices.loki.writeEndpoint | string | `"/loki/api/v1/push"` | Loki logs write endpoint |
| externalServices.prometheus.host | string | `""` | (required) Prometheus host where metrics will be sent |
| externalServices.prometheus.password | string | `""` | (required) Prometheus basic auth password |
| externalServices.prometheus.username | string | `""` | (required) Prometheus basic auth username |
| externalServices.prometheus.writeEndpoint | string | `"/api/prom/push"` | Prometheus metrics write endpoint |
| extraConfig | string | `nil` | Extra configuration that will be added to the Grafana Agent configuration file. <details> <summary>+ Example</summary> An example extraConfig to discover and scrape metrics from a service: ```text discovery.relabel "my-service" {   targets = discovery.kubernetes.services.targets   rule {     source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_service_label_app_kubernetes_io_name"]     regex = "my-service"     action = "keep"   } }  prometheus.scrape "my-service" {   job_name   = "integrations/my-service"   targets    = discovery.relabel.my-service.output   forward_to = [prometheus.relabel.add_cluster_label.receiver] } ``` Note: "discovery.kubernetes.services" and       "prometheus.relabel.add_cluster_label" are pre-defined by this chart. </details> |
| kube-state-metrics.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this helm chart deploy Kube State Metrics to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has Kube State Metrics, or if you do not want to scrape metrics from Kube State Metrics. |
| logs.cluster_events.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape Kubernetes cluster events |
| logs.enabled | bool | `true` | Capture and forward logs |
| logs.pod_logs.enabled | bool | `true` | Capture and forward logs from Kubernetes pods |
| logs.pod_logs.loggingFormat | string | `"docker"` | The log parsing format. Must be one of null, 'cri', or 'docker' See documentation: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/loki.process/#stagecri-block |
| metrics.cadvisor.allowList | list | See [Allow List for cAdvisor](#allow-list-for-cadvisor) | The list of cAdvisor metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.cadvisor.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape container metrics from cAdvisor |
| metrics.cost.allowList | list | See [Allow List for OpenCost](#allow-list-for-opencost) | The list of OpenCost metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.cost.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape cost metrics from OpenCost |
| metrics.cost.labelMatchers | object | `{"app.kubernetes.io/name":"opencost"}` | Label matchers used by the Grafana Agent to select the OpenCost service |
| metrics.enabled | bool | `true` | Capture and forward metrics |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.allowList | list | See [Allow List for Kube State Metrics](#allow-list-for-kube-state-metrics) | The list of Kube State Metrics metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape cluster object metrics from Kube State Metrics |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.labelMatchers | object | `{"app.kubernetes.io/name":"kube-state-metrics"}` | Label matchers used by the Grafana Agent to select the Kube State Metrics service |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.service.isTLS | bool | `false` | Does this port use TLS? |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.service.port | string | `"http"` | Name of the metrics port |
| metrics.kubelet.allowList | list | See [Allow List for Kubelet](#allow-list-for-kubelet) | The list of Kubelet metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.kubelet.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape cluster metrics from the Kubelet |
| metrics.node-exporter.allowList | list | See [Allow List for Node Exporter](#allow-list-for-node-exporter) | The list of Node Exporter metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.node-exporter.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape node metrics |
| metrics.node-exporter.labelMatchers | object | `{"app.kubernetes.io/name":"prometheus-node-exporter.*"}` | Label matchers used by the Grafana Agent to select the Node exporter pods |
| metrics.node-exporter.service.isTLS | bool | `false` | Does this port use TLS? |
| metrics.podMonitors.enabled | bool | `true` | Include service discovery for PodMonitor objects |
| metrics.serviceMonitors.enabled | bool | `true` | Include service discovery for ServiceMonitor objects |
| opencost.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this Helm chart deploy OpenCost to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has OpenCost, or if you do not want to scrape metrics from OpenCost. |
| opencost.opencost.prometheus.external.url | string | `"https://prom.example.com/api/prom"` | The URL for Prometheus queries. It should match externalService.prometheus.host + "/api/prom" |
| prometheus-node-exporter.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this helm chart deploy Node Exporter to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has Node Exporter, or if you do not want to scrape metrics from Node Exporter. |
| prometheus-operator-crds.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this helm chart deploy the Prometheus Operator CRDs to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has the CRDs, or if you do not to have the Grafana Agent scrape metrics from PodMonitors or ServiceMonitors. |

## Platform-specific instructions

### OpenShift

If your cluster is on OpenShift, this Helm chart can be configured to scrape metrics from the existing Kube State Metrics and Node exporter that are deployed by [OpenShift Container Platform monitoring](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/monitoring/monitoring-overview.html).
Use the following values file as a starting point for your own cluster:

```yaml
cluster:
  name: my-openshift-cluster

externalServices:
  prometheus:
    host: https://prometheus.example.com
    username: "12345"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"
  loki:
    host: https://loki.example.com
    username: "67890"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"

metrics:
  kube-state-metrics:
    service:
      port: https-main
      isTLS: true

  node-exporter:
    labelMatchers:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: node-exporter

kube-state-metrics: # This disables the deployment of Kube State Metrics
  enabled: false

prometheus-node-exporter: # This disables the deployment of Node exporter
  enabled: false

grafana-agent:
  agent:
    listenPort: 8080
```

## Allow List

Each metric source has an allow list, which is a list of metric names that will
be forwarded by the Grafana Agent to Prometheus. Any metric not on that list
will be ignored. Defaults have been supplied for the specific services and are
shown in the following sections.

If you want to allow all metrics, set this in the values file:

```yaml
allowList: null
```

### Allow List for Kube State Metrics

Visit the Kube State Metrics [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/main/docs#exposed-metrics) for the full list of metrics

* kube_daemonset.*
* kube_deployment_metadata_generation
* kube_deployment_spec_replicas
* kube_deployment_status_observed_generation
* kube_deployment_status_replicas_available
* kube_deployment_status_replicas_updated
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_spec_max_replicas
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_spec_min_replicas
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_status_current_replicas
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_status_desired_replicas
* kube_job.*
* kube_namespace_status_phase
* kube_namespace_status_phase
* kube_node.*
* kube_persistentvolumeclaim_resource_requests_storage_bytes
* kube_pod_container_info
* kube_pod_container_resource_limits
* kube_pod_container_resource_requests
* kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total
* kube_pod_container_status_waiting_reason
* kube_pod_container_status_waiting_reason
* kube_pod_info
* kube_pod_owner
* kube_pod_start_time
* kube_pod_status_phase
* kube_pod_status_phase
* kube_pod_status_reason
* kube_replicaset.*
* kube_resourcequota
* kube_statefulset.*

### Allow List for Node Exporter

* node_cpu.*
* node_exporter_build_info
* node_filesystem.*
* node_memory.*
* process_cpu_seconds_total
* process_resident_memory_bytes

### Allow List for Kubelet

Visit the Kubelet [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md) for the full list of metrics

* container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
* kubelet_certificate_manager_client_expiration_renew_errors
* kubelet_certificate_manager_client_ttl_seconds
* kubelet_certificate_manager_server_ttl_seconds
* kubelet_cgroup_manager_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_cgroup_manager_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_node_config_error
* kubelet_node_name
* kubelet_pleg_relist_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pleg_relist_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_pleg_relist_interval_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pod_start_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pod_start_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_pod_worker_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pod_worker_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_running_container_count
* kubelet_running_containers
* kubelet_running_pod_count
* kubelet_running_pods
* kubelet_runtime_operations_errors_total
* kubelet_runtime_operations_total
* kubelet_server_expiration_renew_errors
* kubelet_volume_stats_available_bytes
* kubelet_volume_stats_capacity_bytes
* kubelet_volume_stats_inodes
* kubelet_volume_stats_inodes_used
* kubernetes_build_info
* namespace_workload_pod
* rest_client_requests_total
* storage_operation_duration_seconds_count
* storage_operation_errors_total
* volume_manager_total_volumes

### Allow List for cAdvisor

Visit the cAdvisor [documentation](https://github.com/google/cadvisor/blob/master/docs/storage/prometheus.md)

* container_cpu_cfs_periods_total
* container_cpu_cfs_throttled_periods_total
* container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
* container_fs_reads_bytes_total
* container_fs_reads_total
* container_fs_writes_bytes_total
* container_fs_writes_total
* container_memory_cache
* container_memory_rss
* container_memory_swap
* container_memory_working_set_bytes
* container_network_receive_bytes_total
* container_network_receive_packets_dropped_total
* container_network_receive_packets_total
* container_network_transmit_bytes_total
* container_network_transmit_packets_dropped_total
* container_network_transmit_packets_total
* machine_memory_bytes

### Allow List for OpenCost

Visit the OpenCost [documentation](https://www.opencost.io/docs/prometheus#available-metrics) for the full list of metrics

* container_cpu_allocation
* container_gpu_allocation
* container_memory_allocation_bytes
* deployment_match_labels
* kubecost_cluster_info
* kubecost_cluster_management_cost
* kubecost_cluster_memory_working_set_bytes
* kubecost_http_requests_total
* kubecost_http_response_size_bytes
* kubecost_http_response_time_seconds
* kubecost_load_balancer_cost
* kubecost_network_internet_egress_cost
* kubecost_network_region_egress_cost
* kubecost_network_zone_egress_cost
* kubecost_node_is_spot
* node_cpu_hourly_cost
* node_gpu_count
* node_gpu_hourly_cost
* node_ram_hourly_cost
* node_total_hourly_cost
* opencost_build_info
* pod_pvc_allocation
* pv_hourly_cost
* service_selector_labels
* statefulSet_match_labels

Commit message:

Adding docs for additional configs
Signed-off-by: Pete Wall <pete.wall@grafana.com>

charts/k8s-monitoring/README.md, after:

# k8s-monitoring

![Version: 0.0.8](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.0.8-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.1.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.1.6-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for gathering, scraping, and forwarding Kubernetes infrastructure metrics and logs to a Grafana Stack.

## Usage

### Setup Grafana chart repository

```
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

### Install chart

To install the chart with the release name my-release:

```bash
cat >> values.yaml << EOF
cluster:
  name: my-cluster

externalServices:
  prometheus:
    host: https://prometheus.example.com
    username: "12345"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"
  loki:
    host: https://loki.example.com
    username: "67890"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"
EOF
helm install my-release grafana/k8s-monitoring --values values.yaml
```

This chart simplifies the deployment of a Kubernetes monitoring infrastructure, including the following:

* [kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), which gathers metrics about Kubernetes objects
* [Node exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter), which gathers metrics about Kubernetes nodes
* [OpenCost](https://www.opencost.io/), which interprets the above to create cost metrics for the cluster, and
* [Grafana Agent](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/), which scrapes the above services to forward metrics to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and logs to [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/)

The metrics, pod logs, and cluster events that are captured are then sent to Prometheus and Loki services.
This chart does not deploy Prometheus or Loki, but it can be configured to send data to services hosted on the same cluster, or remotely (e.g. on Grafana Cloud).

## Maintainers

| Name | Email | Url |
| ---- | ------ | --- |
| petewall | <pete.wall@grafana.com> |  |

## Requirements

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts | grafana-agent | ~0.16.0 |
| https://opencost.github.io/opencost-helm-chart | opencost | ~1.16.1 |
| https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts | kube-state-metrics | ~5.8.1 |
| https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts | prometheus-node-exporter | 4.18.1 |
| https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts | prometheus-operator-crds | ~5.0.0 |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| cluster.name | string | `""` | (required) The name of this cluster, which will be set in all labels |
| externalServices.loki.host | string | `""` | (required) Loki host where logs and events will be sent |
| externalServices.loki.password | string | `""` | (required) Loki basic auth password |
| externalServices.loki.username | string | `""` | (required) Loki basic auth username |
| externalServices.loki.writeEndpoint | string | `"/loki/api/v1/push"` | Loki logs write endpoint |
| externalServices.prometheus.host | string | `""` | (required) Prometheus host where metrics will be sent |
| externalServices.prometheus.password | string | `""` | (required) Prometheus basic auth password |
| externalServices.prometheus.username | string | `""` | (required) Prometheus basic auth username |
| externalServices.prometheus.writeEndpoint | string | `"/api/prom/push"` | Prometheus metrics write endpoint |
| extraConfig | string | `nil` | Extra configuration that will be added to the Grafana Agent configuration file. <details> <summary>+ Example</summary> An example extraConfig to discover and scrape metrics from a service: ```text discovery.relabel "my-service" {   targets = discovery.kubernetes.services.targets   rule {     source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_service_label_app_kubernetes_io_name"]     regex = "my-service"     action = "keep"   } }  prometheus.scrape "my-service" {   job_name   = "integrations/my-service"   targets    = discovery.relabel.my-service.output   forward_to = [prometheus.relabel.add_cluster_label.receiver] } ``` Note: "discovery.kubernetes.services" and       "prometheus.relabel.add_cluster_label" are pre-defined by this chart. </details> |
| kube-state-metrics.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this helm chart deploy Kube State Metrics to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has Kube State Metrics, or if you do not want to scrape metrics from Kube State Metrics. |
| logs.cluster_events.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape Kubernetes cluster events |
| logs.enabled | bool | `true` | Capture and forward logs |
| logs.pod_logs.enabled | bool | `true` | Capture and forward logs from Kubernetes pods |
| logs.pod_logs.loggingFormat | string | `"docker"` | The log parsing format. Must be one of null, 'cri', or 'docker' See documentation: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/loki.process/#stagecri-block |
| metrics.cadvisor.allowList | list | See [Allow List for cAdvisor](#allow-list-for-cadvisor) | The list of cAdvisor metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.cadvisor.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape container metrics from cAdvisor |
| metrics.cost.allowList | list | See [Allow List for OpenCost](#allow-list-for-opencost) | The list of OpenCost metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.cost.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape cost metrics from OpenCost |
| metrics.cost.labelMatchers | object | `{"app.kubernetes.io/name":"opencost"}` | Label matchers used by the Grafana Agent to select the OpenCost service |
| metrics.enabled | bool | `true` | Capture and forward metrics |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.allowList | list | See [Allow List for Kube State Metrics](#allow-list-for-kube-state-metrics) | The list of Kube State Metrics metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape cluster object metrics from Kube State Metrics |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.labelMatchers | object | `{"app.kubernetes.io/name":"kube-state-metrics"}` | Label matchers used by the Grafana Agent to select the Kube State Metrics service |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.service.isTLS | bool | `false` | Does this port use TLS? |
| metrics.kube-state-metrics.service.port | string | `"http"` | Name of the metrics port |
| metrics.kubelet.allowList | list | See [Allow List for Kubelet](#allow-list-for-kubelet) | The list of Kubelet metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.kubelet.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape cluster metrics from the Kubelet |
| metrics.node-exporter.allowList | list | See [Allow List for Node Exporter](#allow-list-for-node-exporter) | The list of Node Exporter metrics that will be scraped by the Agent |
| metrics.node-exporter.enabled | bool | `true` | Scrape node metrics |
| metrics.node-exporter.labelMatchers | object | `{"app.kubernetes.io/name":"prometheus-node-exporter.*"}` | Label matchers used by the Grafana Agent to select the Node exporter pods |
| metrics.node-exporter.service.isTLS | bool | `false` | Does this port use TLS? |
| metrics.podMonitors.enabled | bool | `true` | Include service discovery for PodMonitor objects |
| metrics.serviceMonitors.enabled | bool | `true` | Include service discovery for ServiceMonitor objects |
| opencost.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this Helm chart deploy OpenCost to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has OpenCost, or if you do not want to scrape metrics from OpenCost. |
| opencost.opencost.prometheus.external.url | string | `"https://prom.example.com/api/prom"` | The URL for Prometheus queries. It should match externalService.prometheus.host + "/api/prom" |
| prometheus-node-exporter.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this helm chart deploy Node Exporter to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has Node Exporter, or if you do not want to scrape metrics from Node Exporter. |
| prometheus-operator-crds.enabled | bool | `true` | Should this helm chart deploy the Prometheus Operator CRDs to the cluster. Set this to false if your cluster already has the CRDs, or if you do not to have the Grafana Agent scrape metrics from PodMonitors or ServiceMonitors. |

## Additional configuration

If you want to add configuration to the Grafana Agent config generated by this Helm chart, you have a few options:

### Additional Flow configuration

You can add any additional Flow components to the generated ConfigMap by using the `extraConfig` value.
Anything there will be appended to the config file.
You can utilize any existing components in the config, and some that might be useful are:

* `discovery.kubernetes "nodes"`
* `discovery.kubernetes "pods"`
* `discovery.kubernetes "services"`

Which should already be present to discover the respective components on your cluster.

### Using Prometheus Operator PodMonitors and ServiceMonitors

This helm chart configures the Grafana Agent to detect and use PodMonitors and ServiceMonitors to scrape metrics.

## Platform-specific instructions

### OpenShift

If your cluster is on OpenShift, this Helm chart can be configured to scrape metrics from the existing Kube State Metrics and Node exporter that are deployed by [OpenShift Container Platform monitoring](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/monitoring/monitoring-overview.html).
Use the following values file as a starting point for your own cluster:

```yaml
cluster:
  name: my-openshift-cluster

externalServices:
  prometheus:
    host: https://prometheus.example.com
    username: "12345"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"
  loki:
    host: https://loki.example.com
    username: "67890"
    password: "It's a secret to everyone"

metrics:
  kube-state-metrics:
    service:
      port: https-main
      isTLS: true

  node-exporter:
    labelMatchers:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: node-exporter

kube-state-metrics: # This disables the deployment of Kube State Metrics
  enabled: false

prometheus-node-exporter: # This disables the deployment of Node exporter
  enabled: false

grafana-agent:
  agent:
    listenPort: 8080
```

## Allow List

Each metric source has an allow list, which is a list of metric names that will
be forwarded by the Grafana Agent to Prometheus. Any metric not on that list
will be ignored. Defaults have been supplied for the specific services and are
shown in the following sections.

If you want to allow all metrics, set this in the values file:

```yaml
allowList: null
```

### Allow List for Kube State Metrics

Visit the Kube State Metrics [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/main/docs#exposed-metrics) for the full list of metrics

* kube_daemonset.*
* kube_deployment_metadata_generation
* kube_deployment_spec_replicas
* kube_deployment_status_observed_generation
* kube_deployment_status_replicas_available
* kube_deployment_status_replicas_updated
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_spec_max_replicas
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_spec_min_replicas
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_status_current_replicas
* kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_status_desired_replicas
* kube_job.*
* kube_namespace_status_phase
* kube_namespace_status_phase
* kube_node.*
* kube_persistentvolumeclaim_resource_requests_storage_bytes
* kube_pod_container_info
* kube_pod_container_resource_limits
* kube_pod_container_resource_requests
* kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total
* kube_pod_container_status_waiting_reason
* kube_pod_container_status_waiting_reason
* kube_pod_info
* kube_pod_owner
* kube_pod_start_time
* kube_pod_status_phase
* kube_pod_status_phase
* kube_pod_status_reason
* kube_replicaset.*
* kube_resourcequota
* kube_statefulset.*

### Allow List for Node Exporter

* node_cpu.*
* node_exporter_build_info
* node_filesystem.*
* node_memory.*
* process_cpu_seconds_total
* process_resident_memory_bytes

### Allow List for Kubelet

Visit the Kubelet [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md) for the full list of metrics

* container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
* kubelet_certificate_manager_client_expiration_renew_errors
* kubelet_certificate_manager_client_ttl_seconds
* kubelet_certificate_manager_server_ttl_seconds
* kubelet_cgroup_manager_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_cgroup_manager_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_node_config_error
* kubelet_node_name
* kubelet_pleg_relist_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pleg_relist_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_pleg_relist_interval_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pod_start_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pod_start_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_pod_worker_duration_seconds_bucket
* kubelet_pod_worker_duration_seconds_count
* kubelet_running_container_count
* kubelet_running_containers
* kubelet_running_pod_count
* kubelet_running_pods
* kubelet_runtime_operations_errors_total
* kubelet_runtime_operations_total
* kubelet_server_expiration_renew_errors
* kubelet_volume_stats_available_bytes
* kubelet_volume_stats_capacity_bytes
* kubelet_volume_stats_inodes
* kubelet_volume_stats_inodes_used
* kubernetes_build_info
* namespace_workload_pod
* rest_client_requests_total
* storage_operation_duration_seconds_count
* storage_operation_errors_total
* volume_manager_total_volumes

### Allow List for cAdvisor

Visit the cAdvisor [documentation](https://github.com/google/cadvisor/blob/master/docs/storage/prometheus.md)

* container_cpu_cfs_periods_total
* container_cpu_cfs_throttled_periods_total
* container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
* container_fs_reads_bytes_total
* container_fs_reads_total
* container_fs_writes_bytes_total
* container_fs_writes_total
* container_memory_cache
* container_memory_rss
* container_memory_swap
* container_memory_working_set_bytes
* container_network_receive_bytes_total
* container_network_receive_packets_dropped_total
* container_network_receive_packets_total
* container_network_transmit_bytes_total
* container_network_transmit_packets_dropped_total
* container_network_transmit_packets_total
* machine_memory_bytes

### Allow List for OpenCost

Visit the OpenCost [documentation](https://www.opencost.io/docs/prometheus#available-metrics) for the full list of metrics

* container_cpu_allocation
* container_gpu_allocation
* container_memory_allocation_bytes
* deployment_match_labels
* kubecost_cluster_info
* kubecost_cluster_management_cost
* kubecost_cluster_memory_working_set_bytes
* kubecost_http_requests_total
* kubecost_http_response_size_bytes
* kubecost_http_response_time_seconds
* kubecost_load_balancer_cost
* kubecost_network_internet_egress_cost
* kubecost_network_region_egress_cost
* kubecost_network_zone_egress_cost
* kubecost_node_is_spot
* node_cpu_hourly_cost
* node_gpu_count
* node_gpu_hourly_cost
* node_ram_hourly_cost
* node_total_hourly_cost
* opencost_build_info
* pod_pvc_allocation
* pv_hourly_cost
* service_selector_labels
* statefulSet_match_labels
